In 1891, Charles Taze Russell visited Kishnell Moldova and he found one
kingdom proclaimer. If you were to visit Moldova today, you would find some
20,000 active publishers of the good news. Moldova has a rich spiritual
heritage that includes enduring faithfully under adverse conditions. Although
governmental authorities tried to stop the spreading of the good news by
exiling thousands of our brothers to Siberia, to their dismay, all they did
was help bring the truth to one of the farthest corners of the earth. As the
following two experiences show, it seems that governmental authorities never
seem to learn. These experiences take place in a break-away state in the
eastern region of Moldova that has been trying to ban our work for the past
17 years. One day this last summer, two sisters using a mobile display in the
capital of this region were approached by the city prosecutor and four of her
colleagues who started to interrogate them. This commotion attracted the
attention of all the passers-by. One woman, not realizing what was going on,
thought the entire group was made up of Jehovah's Witnesses and thanked all
present for the literature display, saying how nice it was that people could now
choose their own literature. Another woman, who was perusing the literature,
overheard what was going on and addressing those from the prosecutor's office
as though speaking to children, said, why don't you leave them alone? They're
doing a good work and aren't causing any problems. I live in a crime-infested
neighborhood and you haven't done a thing about that, but you won't leave these
good people in peace. During that one-hour interrogation, 12 books and eight
magazines were placed. In another city, in the same region, two other sisters
were using a mobile literature display and were taken to the police station to
be questioned by the chief of police. As he wasn't in yet, they were told to wait
at the entrance to the building. These two courageous sisters decided to set up
their display cart. One woman, thinking the police had arranged for the
literature display cart, approached the sisters asking honest-hearted questions.
All the while, the police been working the front desk told those entering the
station, including their fellow officers, to help themselves to the literature,
saying, take it, it's free. Recently, two brochures, eight tracks and the video
why study the Bible, were translated into G-G-U-S, a Turkic language spoken by
some 150,000 people in the south of Moldova. What's been the reaction of those
who've seen the why study the Bible video? One sister, a native G-G-U speaker,
said with tears in her eyes. I'm hearing the same thing I've heard for years
in Russian, but this is going straight to my heart. I feel even more Jehovah's
love for me. And a man in the territory exclaimed,
you don't understand, he's speaking G-G-U-S, my G-G-U-S, Moldovan G-G-U-S,
without an accent. And I understand everything he's saying.
Twenty special pioneers have been assigned to spearhead the search for honest-hearted
ones in this territory and are already conducting some 40 Bible studies.
Moldova may be the poorest country in Europe, but our brothers are spiritually rich
and well cared for. They continue to seek first the kingdom and trust in Jehovah
to provide life's necessities. Since 2005, our total average number of pioneers has doubled.
The time spent in the ministry by each kingdom publisher has increased by more than 20%,
and the number of return visits has also almost doubled.
This zeal for true worship has resulted in a ratio of 1 to 173.
It's my privilege to bring you the love and greetings of your Moldovan brothers and sisters,
including the 26 members of the Moldova Bethel family.